in this video we're going to learn about this stack
data structure so let us understand at using a browsers working
So we're first going to a webpage www dot google
dot com
So that is a data and it is stored in
the stack
Now we will be visiting the website log2base2.com
and that is another data which is
stored in the stack
Now there is link saying Visit our YouTube channel
Now we click there and we go to that address
that is another data and it is stored in the
stack
So whenever we visit web page that url is
stored in the stack
Now what if I pressed this link to YouTube mistakenly
or what if I don't need it anymore and I
want to go to the home page of log2base2
again What I can do is I can
go and write www.log2base2.com
at the search tap but since we have a go
back button here that is not needed I can simply
click on the back button and go to last visited
Page see
I went back to log2base.com
From there I can go back to google dot com
as well
Now that is an application of Stack that his work
stack is used and browsers and it follows a last
in first out principle that is who came last will
be gone out first now let us see the code for
inserting an element to stack and we need an array
for that
So create an array of size three so declare size
write Static final int static equal to 3 and int arr
equal to new int size and we have another
variable top in the stack where the insertion and deletion
operation takes place so we have to initialise top to
minus one
So whenever you see top equal to minus one it means
this stack is currently empty
So in this case we have an empty stack the
fourth top equal to minus one and the insertion operation in
a stack is called push operation
So here we have pushed function to insert an element to
the stack
So we have public void push of int val Now we
are going to insert element ten so val equal to ten
So first we want to check if the stack is
full because a stack data structure has a size
limit which is three here
So if it is full we cannot insert an element
And if the stack is full top will be size
minus one
But it is not top equal to minus one here
So if will fail and the control goes to the
else part here we need to insert the element at
the top position
So first increment top and then insert the element at
top
So we have plus plus top which will increament the
top value so top will become zero from minus one
And now we can insert the element ten at the
top so write array of top equal to val
So the element ten will be inserted at the top
position
So remember the always insert new element
Only at the top of the stack now let us insert
another element 20 So val equal to 20 Now So first
we will check if the stack is full
But it is not since top equal to 0 and not two
So we go to the else part and increment top
so it will become one Now now insert 20 at
the top of this stack
So twenties also inserted now let us insert another element 30
So first check if the stack is full
But it is not since we have top equal to one
and not size minus one
So go to the else part and increment top so
it becomes two now
So insert 30 at the top of this stack
now let us try to insert another element 40
So first check
If the stack is full and we have top equal
to two and we have size equal to three so
top equal to size minus one so print stack is full
and exit from the programme
Now let us see how to delete an element from
a stack so the deletion operation in a stack is
called a pop operation
So here we have function pop to do this
So we have public void pop and we can only
delete the element at the top position
So we have one case to check if the stack
is empty so if top equal to minus one it means
the stack is empty and then there is no element
to delete so deletion is not possible If stack is
empty so write
If top equal to minus one then system dot out
println of stack is empty
So here we have a stack of size three with elements
10 20 and 30 and top equal to two here
So when we call Pop it will delete the element
which is at the top of this stack
So in this function first it will check if top equal
to minus one
But here it is not so go to the else
part
And there we have to decrement top so that the element
of top will be removed
So before that let us print the element that we're going
to delete so print popped element equal to and print the
element at the top of the array
Now we can decrement the top
So we have top minus minus and now it becomes
one and thirties deleted from this tack
Now let us call pop again First it will check if
the stack is empty but top equal to one here and
not minus one
So we go to the else part and bring the
element of top now decrement top
So it will become zero and it will delete 20
from the stack now let us insert an element 100 into
this stack so call push function with Val equal to 100
So check
If stack is full
But it is not
So
Go to the else part and increment top which will
make top equal to one now insert 100 at top
So we have array of top equal to val so 100
is inserted into this stack
Now if we call pop again first it will check
if top equal to minus one but it is not so
Go to the else part and decrement in top and
it will become zero and 100 is deleted
So whenever you insert increment top and insert element at
top and whenever you delete just decrement top
So if we call pop again it will decrement
top and then top will be minus one and it
deletes ten from the stack
Now if we call pop again it will check if
top equal to minus one and it is so it will
Print Stack is empty so this is how insertion and
deletion happens in a stack
Now let us discuss about the time complexity in stack
insertion and deletion happens at the top so we can
perform push and pop operations in constant time
So the best case and worst case is order of
one
So that's all and thank you for watching this video.